README.md, before:

# Iceborne Community Edition #

Welcome to the download page for Iceborne Community Edition. Join us at https://discord.gg/xPDVbhZgFJ to follow the development of this mod!

Iceborne Community Edition is a holistic rework of MHW: Iceborne. We attempt to address multiple major gripes a significant section of the playerbase had with an otherwise great game. The goal of ICE is to preserve the spirit of the game's core design, but improve on its limitations and flaws to provide a more enjoyable experience that can still be recognized as Monster Hunter gameplay.

- - - -

# Installation Guide #

## First Time Installation ##
Follow these steps if you've never installed ICE before:
1. Install Stracker's Loader and all it's prerequisites found here: <https://www.nexusmods.com/monsterhunterworld/mods/1982/>
2. Click on the green "Code" button and then "Download ZIP".
3. Extract the contents of the ZIP directly to your root Monster Hunter World install folder (where MonsterHunterWorld.exe is located).
4. When asked about file conflicts, overwrite any existing files.
5. (Optional) Install any mods you want to use with ICE in the "ICE\ntPC" folder. Install any plugins in "ICE\plugins".
6. Launch game in Admin Mode (required only on first time installs)
7. Check save file management section when you are asked to create a new save file when launching the game.

## Updating Or Re-installing ICE ##
Follow these steps if you want to grab the latest version of ICE:
1. Click on the green "Code" button and then "Download ZIP".
2. Extract the contents of the ZIP directly to your root Monster Hunter World install folder (where MonsterHunterWorld.exe is located).
3. When asked about file conflicts, overwrite any existing files.

## Turning ICE ON / OFF ##
ICE supports easy on/off in case you want to switch back and forth between mods.
- If you want to disable ICE: Rename the main ICE folder to anything else.
- If you want to re-enable ICE: Rename the main ICE folder back to "ICE"
- If you want to reinstall ICE just download from repo and unzip into MHW.exe folder

## Uninstallation ##
If you want to uninstall ICE:
- (Easy Version) In the Monster Hunter World folder, delete the main ICE folder.
- (Full Version) In the Monster Hunter World folder, delete the main ICE folder, cryptbase.dll, loader.dll, ice_managed_code.dll. Then reinstall Stracker's Loader if you need it for other mods: <https://www.nexusmods.com/monsterhunterworld/mods/1982/>

## Migrating from old ICE ##
If you were trying ICE before we switched to github downloads, follow these one-time steps to update your ICE install:
1. Delete your old nativePC folder meant for ICE (save any mods you still want though, if you don't have a copy elsewhere)
2. Click on the green "Code" button and then "Download ZIP".
3. Extract the contents of the ZIP directly to your root Monster Hunter World install folder (where MonsterHunterWorld.exe is located).
4. When asked about file conflicts, overwrite any existing files.
5. (Optional) Install any mods you want to use with ICE in the "ICE\ntPC" folder. Install any plugins in "ICE\plugins".
6. Launch game in Admin Mode (required only on first time installs)
7. Check save file management section when you are asked to create a new save file when launching the game.

- - - -

# Save File System #
ICE manages your character data in a separate save file named "SAVEDATA_ICE". The game normally uses the file named "SAVEDATA1000". These are both located in the standard save folder found at: "...\Steam\userdata\<steamId>\582010\remote\"

Because ICE encorporates changes that are not backwards compatible with the base game, it is necessary for us to separate your save data in this way.

If enabled, ICE will automatically use the "SAVEDATA_ICE" save file. Otherwise, your game will continue to use the "SAVEDATA1000" save file as normal.
Should you want to copy your progress over to ICE:
1. Remove "SAVEDATA_ICE" if it exists (or throw it another folder for safe keeping).
2. Make a new copy of "SAVEDATA1000".
3. Rename that copy to "SAVEDATA_ICE".

As always, it is recommended to make backups of your saves. It only takes one mistake to lose all your save data.

## Creating Your ICE Save File ##
If you boot up the game with ICE enabled for the first time and it says no save data detected, but you want to use your existing character data, then just follow these steps:
1. Hit yes to create a new ICE save but DON'T select a language.
2. If you want to start a new save file, then continue with the setup process and skip the rest of the steps. Otherwise...
3. Close the game after the game creates the save file but before selecting a language.
4. Navigate to your save folder at "...\Steam\userdata\<steamid>\582010\remote\".
5. Delete the "SAVEDATA_ICE" file that's in that folder.
6. Make a copy of your "SAVEDATA1000" file and rename that copy to "SAVEDATA_ICE"
7. Start the game again.

- - - -

# Change Log #

## General Changes ##

### ──────────【 Multiplayer / Matchmaking 】────────── ###
While ICE is installed and enabled, hunters will only be matched with other ICE hunters. This is true when using matchmaking to find sessions or when creating/joining SOS. This is done for compatibility reasons and also out of courtesy to non-ICE hunters, so that non-ICE lobbies are not negatively impacted by any changes or differences in gameplay. Unlike other gameplay altering mods, hunters can freely play online with ICE.

### ──────────【 Monster 】────────── ###
The dominance of the Clutch Claw has been drastically reduced to bring back the original combat pacing from base World. The goal is for softening to be a competitive option, but not a requirement.
- Softening effect on monster HZV has been reduced to `HZV+5` (down from `0.75*HZV + 25`).
- Monster "Clagger" behavior has been removed. Instead monsters will flinch, trip, and topple like they used to, before Iceborne.

Since Capcom reduced Monster hitzone values to accommodate the powerful effects of softening, Monster  hitzone values have been rebalanced in ICE to compensate for the Clutch Claw nerfs above. 
Details can be found here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nzN2zYD1VbeEuKGlrYPRDZPHjfyy0y-SawwSEaTZ8OQ/edit?usp=sharing

AT Velkhana's unique HZV mechanic has also been slightly modified to account for these changes:
- Shot HZV Multipliers increased to 1.1/1.0/0.9 (up from 1.0/0.8/0.6)
These values ensure that aura Lv1 and Lv2 still are WEX zones on an unbroken head, and that at Lv3 tenderized unbroken head and untenderized broken head are WEX zones. These values are below tenderized values in the vanilla tenderization formula and below melee multipliers values keeping in line with the assumed original developer intent.

### ──────────【 Player 】────────── ###
- Attack cap increased to 3.0x (up from 2.0x). This reverts a nerf from IB.
- Element cap increased to 3.0x/+30 (up from 1.6x/+15).
- Status cap increased to 3.0x (up from 1.6x)
- Clutch Claw weapon attacks:
  - All weapons can now soften with a single use, as if they are heavy weapons.
  - Most weapons can now generate slinger ammo, as if they are light weapons.
  - Clutch Claw Boost skill (Shaver Decoration) no longer has any effect for now.

### ──────────【 Progression 】────────── ###

#### 【 Master Rank 】 ####
Master Rank experience gain has been doubled between MR25 and MR100 to help reduce the long grind that is required to unlock augments and play with other players in their Guiding Lands. While this grind may have served a purpose early on in Iceborne, the existence of DLC content that can be accessed immediately at low MR makes this grind awkward and out of place.

#### 【 Guiding Lands 】 ####
The Guiding Lands total zone experience cap mechanic has been disabled. Normally, a hunter would have to complete around 7100+ hunts in Lv7 GL zones in order to level all their zones to 7. While this did add a long term goal and encouraged multiplayer sessions for sharing GL zones, we find this unnecessary as:
1. The requirement was far too extreme for the vast majority of players to ever make a real dent in, let alone fully complete.
2. The Iceborne multiplayer community is naturally diminishing over time.

#### 【 Guaranteed Decorations 】 ####
Certain Decorations are now guaranteed to drop at least once during game progression. These were added for decorations that are particularly game changing and considered mandatory for certain weapons or playstyles.
<https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/879277879987408977/880205529086066748/unknown.png>

#### 【 Decoration Drop Rates 】 ####
Decoration drop rates have been completely reworked and drastically improved.
- Decorations are classified by their value, which is based on the strength and usability of skills provided.
- Higher value decorations will drop from higher rarity Feystones. 
- Full details can be found here: <https://www.nexusmods.com/monsterhunterworld/mods/2162>

#### 【 Dracolites 】 ####
Dracolites have been added to Guiding Lands drop tables, providing hunters the option to continue upgrading their Safi'Jiiva weapons outside of the siege should either the siege not be available, or because they want some more variety in their hunts.

#### 【 Guiding Lands Materials 】 ####
- Guiding Lands Material mining and gathering rates have been strongly boosted.
- Full details can be found here: <https://www.nexusmods.com/monsterhunterworld/mods/2164>

### ──────────【 Skills 】────────── ###
While a more comprehensive rework and rebalancing of skills is planned for ICE in the future, some skills have been tweaked in the mean time with the following goals in mind:
1. Providing more interesting options that have a meaningful impact on gameplay.
2. Providing more value at low levels of skills, to incentivize taking a wider variety of skills.

#### 【 General Changes 】 ####
- Weakness Exploit:
  - Softening requirement removed. 
  - > This reverts a nerf from IB and is intended to help reduce reliance on Clutch Claw softening.
- Focus:
  - Bonus gauge generation increased to 10/18/25% (up from 5/10/20%).
  - > This change helps gauge-based weapons reach certain meaningful breakpoints.
- Heroics: Base Attack bonus changed from 0/5/5/10/15/25/40% to 5/10/15/20/25/30/40%. 
- Fortify:
  - Duration increased to 9.1 hours (up from 50 minutes). 
  - > This partially reverts a nerf from IB, as Capcom's nerf only encouraged players to restart their Guiding Lands session every 50 minutes, rather than actually addressing any real issues.
- Quick Sheathe: 
  - Speed increase changed to 15/30/40% (from 10/20/40%).
- Maximum Might:
  - Level 5 Affinity bonus increased to 50% (up from 40%).
  - Max Stamina time requirement decreased to 0 seconds (down from 5).
  - Lingering buff duration changed to only apply at level 4 (2 seconds) and level 5 (3 seconds).
- Non-Elemental Boost:
  - Base Attack bonus increased to 10% (up from 5%).
  - > This reverts a nerf from IB.
- Power Prolonger: 
  - Effects specific to Switch Axe reduced from 1.3x/1.6x/2.0x to 1.1x/1.2x/1.4x.
- Alatreon Divinity (Set Bonus):
  - Element Conversion rate for normal weapons increased to 8% (up from 5%).
  - Element Conversion rate for Bowguns increased to 8% (up from 2%).

### ──────────【 Equipment 】────────── ###

#### 【 Raw vs Element Balancing 】 ####
Some weapon types have been rebalanced to increase the variety in competitive equipment options for hunters to choose from. The following lists show what the rebalancing goals are for those weapon types. Some weapons will be able to better take advantage of at least the element/status available on their weapon. For these weapons, raw will still be competitive and be the most consistent option when not planning for specific match ups. Other weapons may now be able to run full element builds for certain playstyles.

Raw/Element Weapon + Raw Build:
- Long Sword
- Lance
- Insect Glaive

Element Weapon + Element Build:
- Great Sword (only for new alternative combo playstyle)

#### 【 Armor Changes 】 ####
While a more comprehensive rework and rebalancing of armors is planned for ICE to increase the variety in build options for hunters that have meaningful impact on gameplay (with effects like Frostcraft from Velkhana), some specific sets have been adjusted in the mean time to preserve the limited options the game already did offer.

> Dev Comment: We understand these changes result in a decrease in the endgame power of hunters. While these endgame sets served as a nice final reward from Capcom for "finishing" the game, we don't think the power creep introduced by these sets are healthy in the context of ICE where we will be continually adding to the game. If/when we get around to incorporating additional endgame content, we may come back to revisit these changes when it's appropriate to have gear at these power levels.

- Fatalis and Velkhana Gamma Sets have been reduced in skills and deco slots.
- These sets should still be competitive compared to options before their introduction.
- Changes to armors will be tracked separately on the Armor Spreadsheet.

#### 【 General Changes 】 ####
- Health Regen augment:
  - For melee weapons, cooldown between procs decreased to 0.00s (down from 0.2s).
  - For ranged weapons, cooldown between procs decreased to 0.125s (down from 0.2s).
  - > The above changes were made to avoid inconsistent healing rates as result of movesets, weapon mechanics, and the engine's inability to correctly handle variable frame rates. Healing on ranged weapons will be virtually unchanged compared to intended rates from vanilla.
- Awakened Abilities:
  - Attack V: Attack bonus for GS and Hammer increased to 10 (up from 9), to match other weapons.
  - Attack VI: Attack bonus for GS and Hammer increased to 15 (up from 14), to match other weapons.
- Ammo tables for Safi LBGs have been updated to match Aquashot, but for other elements.

### ──────────【 Quality of Life 】────────── ###

- Equipment UIs now show true Attack (aka Raw) and true Element values for weapons.
  - > This removes the useless bloat multipliers that aren't actually used by the game for any calculations.
- Chat channel no longer changes during certain actions (joining party/session/etc).
- Despawn time for item drops from Monsters increased to 30 minutes (up from 1 or 2 minutes).
  - > This was done to help avoid situations where a hunter has to choose between interrupting their epic fight or forfeiting their rightfully earned loot. This wasn't a very interesting decision, in our opinion.
- Cutscene Skip option enabled on most cutscenes in the game. Given most players will be experiencing ICE as a second (or later) playthrough, this quality of life improvement should help quicken the time required to complete main story quests across all ranks.
  - > Dev Comment: This is still a work-in-progress. Some cutscene audio might not skip correctly!
  
### ──────────【 Bug Fixes 】────────── ###

- DPS Tick Fix: The engine components responsible for specifically handling ticking damage effects have been upgraded to mitigate the negative effects of frame rate on player damage output. In some cases, player damage could be reduced as much as 25% just for not playing at a stable 60fps. Some examples here: <https://bit.ly/MHWEffectsOfFPS>
- Moonshots Fix: Aim behavior has been adjusted for Bow and Bowgun at short ranges to mitigate the occurrence of projectiles that incorrectly fly straight up (and seemly towards the moon/sky) and completely miss the intended target. This is sometimes refered to as "moonshots" by the community. An example can be seen here around the midpoint of the clip: <https://twitter.com/Irh_umbreon/status/1409001644411408391>



## Weapon Changes (Experimental Build) ##

### ──────────【 Hammer 】────────── ###

#### 【 Power Charge Dash Addition 】 ####
-Power Charge when you are already in Power Charge State instead starts a dash which removes Power Charge State and instead sets the Charge Level to 3. This move is treated as part of a Charge and can combo into any Charge follow-up or continued into a Charge.
	
#### 【 Combo Continuation 】 ####
The following combo continuation is intoduced and is inteded to be a possible continuation of the above listed addition of the Power Charge Dash.
- Spinning Bludgeon into Spinning Strong Upswing can now combo into Big Bang IV

#### 【 Important 】 ####
-The current implementation is not Multiplayer safe. There is a high risk of visual glitching and desynchronization. Game stability is also dubious in Multiplayer.

Commit message:

ICE Experimental [314003]
========================================================
General Changes
========================================================

- Update Monster HZV


========================================================
Experimental Changes
========================================================

README.md, after:

# Iceborne Community Edition #

Welcome to the download page for Iceborne Community Edition. Join us at https://discord.gg/xPDVbhZgFJ to follow the development of this mod!

Iceborne Community Edition is a holistic rework of MHW: Iceborne. We attempt to address multiple major gripes a significant section of the playerbase had with an otherwise great game. The goal of ICE is to preserve the spirit of the game's core design, but improve on its limitations and flaws to provide a more enjoyable experience that can still be recognized as Monster Hunter gameplay.

- - - -

# Installation Guide #

## First Time Installation ##
Follow these steps if you've never installed ICE before:
1. Install Stracker's Loader and all it's prerequisites found here: <https://www.nexusmods.com/monsterhunterworld/mods/1982/>
2. On this Github page, click on the green "Code" button and then "Download ZIP".
3. Extract the contents of the ZIP file to a temporary location (Desktop, Downloads, etc).
4. Copy all the contents within the "ice-stable-main" (or "ice-experimental-main") folder directly to your root Monster Hunter World install folder (default path is `...\Steam\steamapps\common\Monster Hunter World\`. You have the right folder if "MonsterHunterWorld.exe" exists in that folder).
5. When asked about file conflicts, overwrite any existing files.
6. (Optional) Install any mods you want to use with ICE in the `...\Monster Hunter World\ICE\ntPC\` folder. Install any plugins in `...\Monster Hunter World\ICE\ntPC\plugins\`.
7. Launch game in Admin Mode (required only on first time installs). 
8. Check save file management section when you are asked to create a new ICE save file when launching the game.

## Updating Or Re-installing ICE ##
Follow these steps if you want to grab the latest version of ICE:
1. Click on the green "Code" button and then "Download ZIP".
2. Extract the contents of the ZIP directly to your root Monster Hunter World install folder (where MonsterHunterWorld.exe is located).
3. When asked about file conflicts, overwrite any existing files.

## Turning ICE ON / OFF ##
ICE supports easy on/off in case you want to switch back and forth between mods.
- If you want to disable ICE: Rename the main ICE folder to anything else.
- If you want to re-enable ICE: Rename the main ICE folder back to "ICE"
- If you want to reinstall ICE just download from repo and unzip into MHW.exe folder

## Uninstallation ##
If you want to uninstall ICE:
- (Easy Version) In the Monster Hunter World folder, delete the main ICE folder.
- (Full Version) In the Monster Hunter World folder, delete the main ICE folder, cryptbase.dll, loader.dll, ice_managed_code.dll. Then reinstall Stracker's Loader if you need it for other mods: <https://www.nexusmods.com/monsterhunterworld/mods/1982/>

## Installing Other Mods with ICE ##
If you want to install mods alongside ICE, we strongly recommend hunters stick with cosmetic/visual mods only. Gameplay mods will likely cause conflicts and compatibility issues. If you do wish to try gameplay mods at your own risk, we ask you to be considerate of other hunters and play offline only, just like you would without ICE.
1. Install mods in the `...\Monster Hunter World\ICE\ntPC\` folder. This ntPC folder is used instead of nativePC, while ICE is enabled.
2. Similarly, plugins are installed in the `...\Monster Hunter World\ICE\ntPC\plugins\` folder.
While ICE is enabled, mods and plugins are only loaded from the above folders. This allows you to manage your mods for ICE separately.

## Migrating from old ICE ##
If you were trying ICE before we switched to GitHub downloads, follow these one-time steps to update your ICE install:
1. Delete your old nativePC folder meant for ICE (save any mods you still want though, if you don't have a copy elsewhere).
2. On this Github page, click on the green "Code" button and then "Download ZIP".
3. Extract the contents of the ZIP file to a temporary location (Desktop, Downloads, etc).
4. Copy all the contents within the "ice-stable-main" (or "ice-experimental-main") folder directly to your root Monster Hunter World install folder (default path is `...\Steam\steamapps\common\Monster Hunter World\`. You have the right folder if "MonsterHunterWorld.exe" exists in that folder).
5. When asked about file conflicts, overwrite any existing files.
6. (Optional) Install any mods you want to use with ICE in the `...\Monster Hunter World\ICE\ntPC\` folder. Install any plugins in `...\Monster Hunter World\ICE\ntPC\plugins\`.
7. Launch game in Admin Mode (required only on first time installs)
8. Check save file management section when you are asked to create a new save file when launching the game.

- - - -

# Save File System #
ICE manages your character data in a separate save file named "SAVEDATA_ICE". The game normally uses the file named "SAVEDATA1000". These are both located in the standard save folder found at: `...\Steam\userdata\<steamId>\582010\remote\`

Because ICE encorporates changes that are not backwards compatible with the base game, it is necessary for us to separate your save data in this way.

If enabled, ICE will automatically use the "SAVEDATA_ICE" save file. Otherwise, your game will continue to use the "SAVEDATA1000" save file as normal.
Should you want to copy your progress over to ICE:
1. Remove "SAVEDATA_ICE" if it exists (or throw it another folder for safe keeping).
2. Make a new copy of "SAVEDATA1000".
3. Rename that copy to "SAVEDATA_ICE".

As always, it is recommended to make backups of your saves. It only takes one mistake to lose all your save data.

## Creating Your ICE Save File ##
If you boot up the game with ICE enabled for the first time and it says no save data detected, but you want to use your existing character data, then just follow these steps:
1. Hit yes to create a new ICE save but DON'T select a language.
2. If you want to start a new save file, then continue with the setup process and skip the rest of the steps. Otherwise...
3. Close the game after the game creates the save file but before selecting a language.
4. Navigate to your save folder at `...\Steam\userdata\<steamid>\582010\remote\`.
5. Delete the "SAVEDATA_ICE" file that's in that folder.
6. Make a copy of your "SAVEDATA1000" file and rename that copy to "SAVEDATA_ICE"
7. Start the game again.

- - - -

# Change Log #

## General Changes ##

### ──────────【 Multiplayer / Matchmaking 】────────── ###
While ICE is installed and enabled, hunters will only be matched with other ICE hunters. This is true when using matchmaking to find sessions or when creating/joining SOS. This is done for compatibility reasons and also out of courtesy to non-ICE hunters, so that non-ICE lobbies are not negatively impacted by any changes or differences in gameplay. Unlike other gameplay altering mods, hunters can freely play online with ICE.

### ──────────【 Monster 】────────── ###
The dominance of the Clutch Claw has been drastically reduced to bring back the original combat pacing from base World. The goal is for softening to be a competitive option, but not a requirement.
- Softening effect on monster HZV has been reduced to `HZV+5` (down from `0.75*HZV + 25`).
- Monster "Clagger" behavior has been removed. Instead monsters will flinch, trip, and topple like they used to, before Iceborne.

Since Capcom reduced Monster hitzone values to accommodate the powerful effects of softening, Monster  hitzone values have been rebalanced in ICE to compensate for the Clutch Claw nerfs above. 
Details can be found here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1nzN2zYD1VbeEuKGlrYPRDZPHjfyy0y-SawwSEaTZ8OQ/edit?usp=sharing

AT Velkhana's unique HZV mechanic has also been slightly modified to account for these changes:
- Shot HZV Multipliers increased to 1.1/1.0/0.9 (up from 1.0/0.8/0.6)
These values ensure that aura Lv1 and Lv2 still are WEX zones on an unbroken head, and that at Lv3 tenderized unbroken head and untenderized broken head are WEX zones. These values are below tenderized values in the vanilla tenderization formula and below melee multipliers values keeping in line with the assumed original developer intent.

### ──────────【 Player 】────────── ###
- Attack cap increased to 3.0x (up from 2.0x). This reverts a nerf from IB.
- Element cap increased to 3.0x/+30 (up from 1.6x/+15).
- Status cap increased to 3.0x (up from 1.6x)
- Clutch Claw weapon attacks:
  - All weapons can now soften with a single use, as if they are heavy weapons.
  - Most weapons can now generate slinger ammo, as if they are light weapons.
  - Clutch Claw Boost skill (Shaver Decoration) no longer has any effect for now.

### ──────────【 Progression 】────────── ###

#### 【 Master Rank 】 ####
Master Rank experience gain has been doubled between MR25 and MR100 to help reduce the long grind that is required to unlock augments and play with other players in their Guiding Lands. While this grind may have served a purpose early on in Iceborne, the existence of DLC content that can be accessed immediately at low MR makes this grind awkward and out of place.

#### 【 Guiding Lands 】 ####
The Guiding Lands total zone experience cap mechanic has been disabled. Normally, a hunter would have to complete around 7100+ hunts in Lv7 GL zones in order to level all their zones to 7. While this did add a long term goal and encouraged multiplayer sessions for sharing GL zones, we find this unnecessary as:
1. The requirement was far too extreme for the vast majority of players to ever make a real dent in, let alone fully complete.
2. The Iceborne multiplayer community is naturally diminishing over time.

#### 【 Guaranteed Decorations 】 ####
Certain Decorations are now guaranteed to drop at least once during game progression. These were added for decorations that are particularly game changing and considered mandatory for certain weapons or playstyles.
<https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/879277879987408977/880205529086066748/unknown.png>

#### 【 Decoration Drop Rates 】 ####
Decoration drop rates have been completely reworked and drastically improved.
- Decorations are classified by their value, which is based on the strength and usability of skills provided.
- Higher value decorations will drop from higher rarity Feystones. 
- Full details can be found here: <https://www.nexusmods.com/monsterhunterworld/mods/2162>

#### 【 Dracolites 】 ####
Dracolites have been added to Guiding Lands drop tables, providing hunters the option to continue upgrading their Safi'Jiiva weapons outside of the siege should either the siege not be available, or because they want some more variety in their hunts.

#### 【 Guiding Lands Materials 】 ####
- Guiding Lands Material mining and gathering rates have been strongly boosted.
- Full details can be found here: <https://www.nexusmods.com/monsterhunterworld/mods/2164>

### ──────────【 Skills 】────────── ###
While a more comprehensive rework and rebalancing of skills is planned for ICE in the future, some skills have been tweaked in the mean time with the following goals in mind:
1. Providing more interesting options that have a meaningful impact on gameplay.
2. Providing more value at low levels of skills, to incentivize taking a wider variety of skills.

#### 【 General Changes 】 ####
- Weakness Exploit:
  - Softening requirement removed. 
  - > This reverts a nerf from IB and is intended to help reduce reliance on Clutch Claw softening.
- Focus:
  - Bonus gauge generation increased to 10/18/25% (up from 5/10/20%).
  - > This change helps gauge-based weapons reach certain meaningful breakpoints.
- Heroics: Base Attack bonus changed from 0/5/5/10/15/25/40% to 5/10/15/20/25/30/40%. 
- Fortify:
  - Duration increased to 9.1 hours (up from 50 minutes). 
  - > This partially reverts a nerf from IB, as Capcom's nerf only encouraged players to restart their Guiding Lands session every 50 minutes, rather than actually addressing any real issues.
- Quick Sheathe: 
  - Speed increase changed to 15/30/40% (from 10/20/40%).
- Maximum Might:
  - Level 5 Affinity bonus increased to 50% (up from 40%).
  - Max Stamina time requirement decreased to 0 seconds (down from 5).
  - Lingering buff duration changed to only apply at level 4 (2 seconds) and level 5 (3 seconds).
- Non-Elemental Boost:
  - Base Attack bonus increased to 10% (up from 5%).
  - > This reverts a nerf from IB.
- Power Prolonger: 
  - Effects specific to Switch Axe reduced from 1.3x/1.6x/2.0x to 1.1x/1.2x/1.4x.
- Alatreon Divinity (Set Bonus):
  - Element Conversion rate for normal weapons increased to 8% (up from 5%).
  - Element Conversion rate for Bowguns increased to 8% (up from 2%).

### ──────────【 Equipment 】────────── ###

#### 【 Raw vs Element Balancing 】 ####
Some weapon types have been rebalanced to increase the variety in competitive equipment options for hunters to choose from. The following lists show what the rebalancing goals are for those weapon types. Some weapons will be able to better take advantage of at least the element/status available on their weapon. For these weapons, raw will still be competitive and be the most consistent option when not planning for specific match ups. Other weapons may now be able to run full element builds for certain playstyles.

Raw/Element Weapon + Raw Build:
- Long Sword
- Lance
- Insect Glaive

Element Weapon + Element Build:
- Great Sword (only for new alternative combo playstyle)

#### 【 Armor Changes 】 ####
While a more comprehensive rework and rebalancing of armors is planned for ICE to increase the variety in build options for hunters that have meaningful impact on gameplay (with effects like Frostcraft from Velkhana), some specific sets have been adjusted in the mean time to preserve the limited options the game already did offer.

> Dev Comment: We understand these changes result in a decrease in the endgame power of hunters. While these endgame sets served as a nice final reward from Capcom for "finishing" the game, we don't think the power creep introduced by these sets are healthy in the context of ICE where we will be continually adding to the game. If/when we get around to incorporating additional endgame content, we may come back to revisit these changes when it's appropriate to have gear at these power levels.

- Fatalis and Velkhana Gamma Sets have been reduced in skills and deco slots.
- These sets should still be competitive compared to options before their introduction.
- Changes to armors will be tracked separately on the Armor Spreadsheet.

#### 【 General Changes 】 ####
- Health Regen augment:
  - For melee weapons, cooldown between procs decreased to 0.00s (down from 0.2s).
  - For ranged weapons, cooldown between procs decreased to 0.125s (down from 0.2s).
  - > The above changes were made to avoid inconsistent healing rates as result of movesets, weapon mechanics, and the engine's inability to correctly handle variable frame rates. Healing on ranged weapons will be virtually unchanged compared to intended rates from vanilla.
- Awakened Abilities:
  - Attack V: Attack bonus for GS and Hammer increased to 10 (up from 9), to match other weapons.
  - Attack VI: Attack bonus for GS and Hammer increased to 15 (up from 14), to match other weapons.
- Ammo tables for Safi LBGs have been updated to match Aquashot, but for other elements.

### ──────────【 Quality of Life 】────────── ###

- Equipment UIs now show true Attack (aka Raw) and true Element values for weapons.
  - > This removes the useless bloat multipliers that aren't actually used by the game for any calculations.
- Chat channel no longer changes during certain actions (joining party/session/etc).
- Despawn time for item drops from Monsters increased to 30 minutes (up from 1 or 2 minutes).
  - > This was done to help avoid situations where a hunter has to choose between interrupting their epic fight or forfeiting their rightfully earned loot. This wasn't a very interesting decision, in our opinion.
- Cutscene Skip option enabled on most cutscenes in the game. Given most players will be experiencing ICE as a second (or later) playthrough, this quality of life improvement should help quicken the time required to complete main story quests across all ranks.
  - > Dev Comment: This is still a work-in-progress. Some cutscene audio might not skip correctly!
  
### ──────────【 Bug Fixes 】────────── ###

- DPS Tick Fix: The engine components responsible for specifically handling ticking damage effects have been upgraded to mitigate the negative effects of frame rate on player damage output. In some cases, player damage could be reduced as much as 25% just for not playing at a stable 60fps. Some examples here: <https://bit.ly/MHWEffectsOfFPS>
- Moonshots Fix: Aim behavior has been adjusted for Bow and Bowgun at short ranges to mitigate the occurrence of projectiles that incorrectly fly straight up (and seemly towards the moon/sky) and completely miss the intended target. This is sometimes refered to as "moonshots" by the community. An example can be seen here around the midpoint of the clip: <https://twitter.com/Irh_umbreon/status/1409001644411408391>



## Weapon Changes (Experimental Build) ##

### ──────────【 Hammer 】────────── ###

#### 【 Power Charge Dash Addition 】 ####
-Power Charge when you are already in Power Charge State instead starts a dash which removes Power Charge State and instead sets the Charge Level to 3. This move is treated as part of a Charge and can combo into any Charge follow-up or continued into a Charge.
	
#### 【 Combo Continuation 】 ####
The following combo continuation is intoduced and is inteded to be a possible continuation of the above listed addition of the Power Charge Dash.
- Spinning Bludgeon into Spinning Strong Upswing can now combo into Big Bang IV

#### 【 Important 】 ####
-The current implementation is not Multiplayer safe. There is a high risk of visual glitching and desynchronization. Game stability is also dubious in Multiplayer.
